agnosis: Lung, left upper lobe, lobectomy. Adenocarcinoma, poorly differentiated, 5.3 cm diameter, bronchial and pleural margins not involved. - Lymph nodes, peribronchial - No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/8) . B: Lymph nodes, station 5, removal. - No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/2). C: Lymph nodes, L10, removal. - No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/2). D: Lymph nodes, station 11, removal. - No metastatic carcinoma identified (0/2). Comment. None. Intraoperative Consultation: Frozen section is requested by Dr. FSA1: Lung, left upper lobe, lobectomy, bronchial margin, biopsy. No tumor seen in bronchial margin. - TWO lymph nodes, no tumor seen (0/2). Clinical History: with adenocarcinoma of the left upper lobe of the lung. Gross Description: Received are four appropriately containers. Container A: Specimen fixation: formalin. Yype of specimen/parts of lung received: left upper lobe lobectomy. Size of specimen: 17.5 x 11.0 x 5.8 cm. Weight of specimen: 340 g. Other attached structures: none. Tumor location: left upper lobe superior segment. Tumor size: 5.3 x 5.0 x 5.0 cm. Sectioning of the tumor reveals a firm, tan, slightly whorled, solid. mass. with pushing of regular borders which is somewhat circumscribed. The specimen almost has a cauliflower. appearance. Relationship of tumor to bronchus: Tumor does not grossly appear to be involving the bronchus. Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: 1.1 cm. Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: closest distance is 0.4 cm. Distance of tumor to other surgical margins: 1.1 cm from bronchial margin; tumor is 1.4 cm away from stapled. surgical margin. Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: absent. Involvement of attached structures by tumor: no attached structures present. Description of nontumorous lung: remaining lung is red/tan and diffusely aerated. There are focal areas which. appear consolidated. Tissue submitted for special studies: yes, next section of bronchial margin, a representative section of tumor. and representative section of normal lung parenchyma. 'ock Summary: JA1 - bronchial margin. A1 - stapled surgical margin. A2 - representative section of tumor at pleura. A3 - representative section of tumor at pleura. A4 - representative section of tumor and adjacent uninvolved lung. A5 - representative section of tumor. A6 - representative section of uninvolved lung, inferior segment. A7 - two lymph node candidates. A8 - one lymph node candidate. A9 - representative section of tumor to distance of bronchus. Container B is additionally labeled "station 5". Within the container are two fragments of soft tissue which. measure 1.5 x 1.8 x 0.4 cm in aggregate. The specimens are tan/brown and consistent with lymph nodes. B1 - one lymph node candidate, bisected. B2 - one lymph node candidate, bisected,. Container C is additionally labeled "L10". Within the container is a 1.5 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm, single, tan,. irregular. soft tissue fragment consistent with lymph node. C1 - one lymph node candidate, bisected,. Container D is additionally labeled "station 11". Within the container is a 0.5 x 0.5 x 0.3 cm, red/tan tissue. fragment consistent with lymph node. The specimen is bisected in D1. Light Microscopy: Light microscopic examination is performed by Dr. The frozen section diagnosis is confirmed. Tumor histologic type (WHO classification) : adenocarcinoma. Tumor histologic grade (WHO classification) : poorly differentiated. Tumor size (greatest dimension) : 5.3 cm. Histologic assessment of surgical margins: not involved. Pleural involvement: not identified. In situ carcinoma: not identified. nvasion: ugiolymphatic - not identified. perineural - not identified. Lymph nodes (by node group) : 0/8 peribronchial 0/2 station 5 0/1 L10 0/1 station 11. Extracapsular extension of tumor in lymph nodes: n/a. Findings in nontumorous lung: hemosiderin-lader macrophages and post-obstructive. changes.