agnosis: : Lung, right upper lobe, lobectomy. - poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma, tumor size 5.0 cm in greatest dimension. - Surgical margins free of tumor. - No tumor seen in two hilar lymph nodes from lobectomy specimen. B: Lymph node, station 11, removal. No tumor seen in one lymph node (0/1) . C: Lymph node, R4, removal. - No tumor seen in one lymph node (0/1). D: Lymph node, station 7, removal. - No tumor seen in one lymph node (0/1). E: Pleura, biopsy. - Fragment of pleura with reactive mesothelial cells, fibrosis and acute and chronic inflammation, no tumor. seen. Comment: The tumor is markedly pleomorphic and high grade, with rare mucin positive cells. This favors the interpretation. of adenocarcinoma. s. Clinical History: Right upper lobe mass. Gross Description: Received are five appropriately labeled containers. Container A is additionally labeled "right upper lobe". Specimen fixation: formalin. Type of specimen/parts of lung received: received is a right upper lobe, lobectomy. i.ze of specimen: 14.0 x 9.5 x 2.8 cm. Weight of specimen: 250 g. Other attached structures: none. Tumor location: peripheral. Tumor size and description: 5.0 x 4.2 x 3.6 cm; tumor grossly appears as a circumscribed, white/tan, focally. softened, and focally hemorrhagic nodule, which is located under the peripheral pleura Relationship of tumor to. bronchus: 3.0 cm from the closest bronchial margin, does not involve the bronchus. Distance of tumor to bronchial margin: see above. Relationship/distance of tumor to pleura: diffusely abutting the pleura, does not appear to be invading into the. pleura, however, the pleura over this nodule is red/brown, diffusely hemorrhagic and contains thick, gray/brown. adhesions. Distance. of. tumor to other surgical margins: The tumor is 3.4 cm from the closest stapled (blue inked) margin. Presence/absence of satellite tumor nodules: absent. Description of nontumorous lung: The remainder of the specimen has a brown/red, smooth, spongy cut surface. with no other grossly identifiable lesions. A1 - bronchial and vascular margins, with one hilar lymph node candidate. A2 - tangential blue inked margin at closest approach to tumor. A3 - remaining tangential surgical margin. A4 - tumor with pleura. A5,A6 - representative tumor. A7 - representative normal. Container. B. is additionally labeled "station 11". The specimen consists of a 1.0 x 0.6 x 0.2 cm aggregate of. dark brown red tissue which is submitted in toto in block B1. ontainer. C. is. additionally labeled "R4". It holds a 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm fragment of pink/tan tissue which is. bisected. C1,. Container D is additionally labeled "station 7". It holds a 1.1 x 0.9 x 0.2 cm aggregate of gray/brown tissue. fragment. D1,. Container E is additionally labeled "pleural biopsy at azygous vein". The specimen consists of a 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.1. cm fragment of red/brown soft tissue. E1,. Light Microscopy: ght microscopic examination is performed by Dr. Container A: Tumor histologic type (WHO classification) : adenocarcinoma. Tumor histologic grade (WHO classification) : poorly differentiated. Tumor size (greatest dimension) : 5.0 cm. Histologic assessment of surgical margins: surgical margins free of tumor. Pleural involvement: not involved. In situ carcinoma: not identified. Invasion: angiolymphatic - not identified. perineural - not identified. Lymph nodes (by node group) : all lymph nodes are free of tumor. Findings in nontumorous lung: focal post-obstructive changes.